So in the last lectures we learned a lot about the creation and configuration and usage of our own forms.
Now let's use another cool feature we can easily implement when using the reactive approach adding our
own validators.
Thus far we always used to build and wants and to be honest with all the built in ones.
You should be able to cover most of your use cases.
But let's say we have some user names you don't want to allow the user to use.
In this case I will go to my types called file and here I'll add a new property forbidden user names
for example and then Azariah.
I'll add Chris and Anna as forbidden usernames if read like this.
So now I want to create my own validator which checks whether the user name user entered is one of the
two usernames specified here.
Now a new validator can be added pretty easily.
A validator Indianised just a function which gets executed by dangler automatically when it checks the
validity of the form control and it checks their validity.
Whenever you change that control.
So a validator is just a function.
Let's name it forbidden names.
Now a validator to work correctly needs to receive an argument which is to control it should check.
So this will be of type for and control a validator also needs to return something for angle or to be
able to handle the return value correctly.
This something should be a javascript object.
And now the following notation might look strange.
It should have any key which can be interpreted as a string and is just type of syntax for saying hey
we want to have a key value pair where the key again can be interpreted as a string which is true for
a key and an object in general.
More importantly the value of that key value pair.
There should be a boolean.
So this function here should return something like let's say an object where we have name is forbidden.
This would be the key name which is interpreted as a string and it could be true.
So this is what this function should return in the end.
For example the message itself the key name is up to us and therefore we can now add the logic in this
function in our case you know I want to check if the value of the control is part of these forbidden
usernames array.
So I want to check if this forbidden user names index off.
So if it contains a certain element and the element is the value of our control we pass year to control
we're checking if this is the case I want to return an object.
Whereas say name is for bidin.
Any short error code you want is true.
Now any advocate is.
I want to return now.
And now this is important.
If validation is successful you have to pass nothing or NULL.
You should not pass this object with force.
This might sound counter-intuitive but that's just how it works.
It should be null.
Or you simply omit the return statement.
This is how you tell angler that the form control is valid.
Well then this is all with our own form validator or own validator here.
Important it receives to control and it returns this object with an error code and then true.
For example if it is invalid.
So now to add this I'll go to my username and actually we now want to assign an array of validators.
All changed is appropriately and I will now add a reference to my forbidden names function again.
Don't execute it.
Only pass a reference.
And now if we save this we get an error.
Now this can be a tough one to spot what's going wrong here.
This error has something to do with the way javascript handles this in forbidden names.
I'm accessing this here.
Now this might look all right because I'm in this class and I access this forbidden usernames.
But think about who is calling these forbidden names.
We're not calling it from inside this class angler we'll call it when it checks the validity.
At this point of time this will not refer to our class here.
So to fix this I actually need to bind this to good old javascript trick to make sure that this refers
to what you wanted to refer to.
So it does in place every now that does recompile.
The error is gone.
Let's now check the validity of this input.
Here it is invalid.
But if I enter test here it stays invalid.
The reason for days is that right now I'm checking.
If control value is part of this array This will return minus one.
If it is not part well minus one is interpreted as true though.
So we need to check if this is not equal to minus 1.
So if this is not equal to minus one that means we did find it.
That means it is invalid.
So now with this in place if we go back inspect again and type test year you see it becomes invalid.
If I type and I your it becomes invalid.
So our own validation year is working fine now.
In the next lecture I will have a look at this strange error code and how we can use that